In this video I'll demonstrate how to install ESX I 6.5 from an ISO image.
Now there's a few different ways you can do this in real life.
Right.
You could use a DVD or you could use auto deploy or a scripted installation.
In this case I've simply downloaded the ISO switch from VM Moore's website and I'm actually going to
install ESX II on a virtual machine and I'm going to do this using VM Ware workstation.
I'm going to create a new virtual machine and I'm going to actually install ESX I'm on this virtual
machine so I'm going to go ahead and hit Next here and I'm going to tell it I'll install the operating
system later.
I'm going to do that using my iso image.
And in this case I'm just going to choose ESX I 6 but we're actually going to install ESX I top five
so I'm going to call it ESX I 6:5 demo and I'm going to choose the appropriate disk where I have some
extra room to put this VM
in I'll hit next.
I'll choose the number of processor cores we'll stick with two.
I'm going to give it a gigs of memory.
I'm going to use network address translation to provide my virtual machine with a IP address and I'm
going to choose a new virtual disk I'm going to make it 20 gigs in this case just to keep it a little
smaller.
And here's my VM DK It's going to exist for this virtual machine.
I'll choose customize hardware.
Here's the important part right.
I've got a CD DVD drive for this VM and I'm going to go ahead and use an ISO image file.
All right so I'm going to browse to my ESX host ISO image.
Let's see where it is.
VM visor installer 65.
I'll go hit open here and I'll make sure that I've selected connected power on.
All right so when I power on this new virtual machine it will boot from the iso image that I've specified
and I'll go ahead and have finish.
OK.
So in real life you're probably going to have a physical host or you're probably going to have some
sort of media like a DVD or US B media that you're actually going to boot from.
In this case it's a little bit different.
Right.
I'm booting up a virtual machine and installing ESX high on it now isn't powering up this virtual machine.
It's telling these are some very movable devices that I can get rid of.
I'm just going to go ahead.
OK here.
And so here we see that we actually have ESX II being installed right.
So this virtual machine is booting from my ESX high ISO image and now it's going to go ahead and take
us through the ESX eye installation process.
So I don't really need VM or workstation anymore.
I'm just going to go ahead and bring this full screen and this part is going to actually take a little
while.
It's going to go through and load up everything it needs to install ESX.
So I'm going to speed up this recording here.
And so when it comes back we'll take a look at what we need to do to actually complete the installation
process.
OK so here we are at the first prompt of our ESX installation wizard I'm going to go ahead hit enter
to continue and that's 11 to accept the licensing agreement.
OK.
And in this screen it's just asking me what virtual disk I want to install.
ESX I can't.
So I'm going to go ahead and choose the only virtual this that I have all choose my keyboard layout
which in my case is U.S. default and I'll choose a root password.
I'll go hide and hit enter.
And now it's going to scan my system gather some additional information.
It's going to confirm that I actually want to install ESX I on that partition that I've selected.
So I'll go ahead and hit F 11 to continue the installation process.
OK so now we can see that our installation has been completed.
We've gone ahead and successfully installed the ESX operating system on the host.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit enter to reboot the ESX I.
And then I'm going to take you through the direct console user interface.
So let's enter I'm also going to take a moment here to disconnect the CD drive from this virtual machine.
So on this VM I'm going to go ahead and right click it and edit the settings of the virtual machine
and essentially just remove the ISO image
that will allow the ESX host to boot up now.
OK so now that we have successfully installed ESX I I'm going to head off to and log in with the root
credentials that we established during the installation.
And here I am at the direct console user interface.
So now at the DC UI direct console user interface I can go ahead and do things like change my password
I can configure my management network for this particular host.
I can restart the management network.
I can look at logs I can do management network tasks things like that just to make sure that the host
is actually working properly.
So this is where you'll do kind of the very basic initial configuration of your ESX host.
And once that's done you can go ahead and log into the center and add this host to your vse and our
inventory.
But that's as far as I'm going to go right now.
So this is how we go ahead and install ESX II.
Pretty straightforward right.
The installation process is pretty easy.
If you ever want to wipe out your configuration and reset it to like the factory default configuration
that's what this final menu option of the DCU I can do.